# protoc-gen-go-grpc

This tool generates Go language bindings of `service`s in protobuf definition
files for gRPC.  For usage information, please see our [quick start
guide](https://grpc.io/docs/languages/go/quickstart/).

## Future-proofing services

By default, to register services using the methods generated by this tool, the
service implementations must embed the corresponding
`Unimplemented<ServiceName>Server` for future compatibility.  This is a behavior
change from the grpc code generator previously included with `protoc-gen-go`.
To restore this behavior, set the option `require_unimplemented_servers=false`.
E.g.:

```sh
  protoc --go-grpc_out=. --go-grpc_opt=require_unimplemented_servers=false[,other options...] \
```

**Using of --go-grpc_out and --go-grpc_opt**
- `--go-grpc_out=<output-directory>`: This option specifies the output directory for the generated Go gRPC code. The value should be the directory where you want the generated files to be placed (e.g., `.` for the current directory).
- `--go-grpc_opt=<options>`: This option is used to pass additional settings for code generation, such as configuring compatibility behavior or specifying file path rules. Multiple options can be passed by separating them with commas.

Note that this is not recommended, and the option is only provided to restore
backward compatibility with previously-generated code.

When embedding the `Unimplemented<ServiceName>Server` in a struct that
implements the service, it should be embedded by _value_ instead of as a
_pointer_.  If it is embedded as a pointer, it must be assigned to a valid,
non-nil pointer or else unimplemented methods would panic when called.  This is
tested at service registration time, and will lead to a panic in
`Register<ServiceName>Server` if it is not embedded properly.
